All right.
So now we're gonna start looking at some stuff to make your lives much easier.
Now in our hotel Web site project we used floats to align things which is a pain in the neck for so
many reasons and for a long time we had to use frameworks like bootstrap and one of the biggest reasons
for that was it came with a grid system to easily align elements so we didn't have to use floats but
flex blocks was introduced in CSA s version 3 which allows us to align things easily without using floats
or frameworks.
So from now on we're gonna do do away with floats and use flex blocks and or CSX grid when we get to
that.
OK so flex boxes is basically a modern layout mode and C Ss 3 we assign flex to the display property
just like we have display block display inline display inline block display none.
We also have display flex and it replaces floats it's much more elegant to work with we can align items
both horizontal and vertical and flex items can also be reordered via CSF so we can actually reorder
the way that are our items are laid out without having to change the markup without having to change
the h t amount.
So let's take a quick look at how it works.
And I'm going to show you all this.
Don't worry about it but just really quickly if we assign display flex to a container div or any container
element it creates a flex container.
OK and we can look at this image here.
So let's say that these two boxes are divs inside of a div that we said display flex.
OK so we have a flex container and then it makes all direct elements flex items.
OK so each div or list item it could be any element at all.
Each thing inside that flex container is going to be a flex item and it's going to actually align Horizontal
in a row by default.
So simply putting display flex is going to make all the child elements just automatically align horizontally.
So basically like what floats do but we can also do flex direction column which will align them this
way.
OK.
Align them vertically.
Now we have a cross access which goes up and down and we have a main axis that goes this way.
And there's different CSF properties we can use to align our Flex items.
So here's some of those properties so we have justified content which will align along the main access.
So basically horizontal along this main access we have a line items which will align items on the cross
access.
So this way and then align content which will align when there's extra space in the cross axis.
Basically if we have you know multiple rows of flex items it'll align those and I mean I know that's
confusing just saying it but I will show you and give you examples of all of these.
All right.
So let's jump in and let's take a look at the basic fundamentals of flex box.